Data Producer Identification Procedures
=======================================

As concerns compliance with the rules governing the management of the
data of Public Administration, and for the purposes of entering the data
into the Data Registry, the Producer of the Data must be identified. In
so doing, it is appropriate to consider the type or class of the data.
For this first phase of implementation of the Data Policy, only two data
Classes – named A and B – are adopted, depending on the characteristics
and role of the data in question. In particular, Class A identifies the
data that have a specific role with regard to the Body’s institutional
commitments and strategic objectives as established in the PTA. Class B
identifies all the other data. The assessment of the data’s class is the
responsibility of the Department Directors, as they are the
institutional parties tasked with promotion, programming, and
verification, as indicated in the body’s Statute [1]_. In particular,
for the purposes of the data’s migration to the Registry, the Class A
data shall be considered a priority.

As concerns the identification of the Data Producer, the procedure then
follows different paths, depending on the class attributed to the data.

In the case of data attributed to Class A, the identification of the
Data Producer and, where applicable, of its Manager, will take place in
accordance with the “top-down” procedure defined as follows.

-  The Department Director(s) define(s) the type of data based on the
   institutional priority, and at the same time identify(ies) the
   Section of reference or Sections in the case of several Sections
   involved in producing the data.

-  The Section Director(s) of reference identify(ies) the personnel
   involved in collecting and processing the data; in the event of
   several units of personnel, the Director(s) identify(ies) a Manager.

-  The Department Director(s) validate(s) the decision made by the
   Section Director(s).

-  The Data Manager initiates the procedure for entering the data into
   the Registry in accordance with the procedures indicated by the Data
   Management Office.

In the case of data attributed to Class B, the identification of the
Data Producer and, where applicable, of its Manager, will take place in
accordance with the “bottom-up” procedure defined as follows.

-  The personnel involved in producing the data proposes the Data
   Producer to its Section Director(s); in the case of several units of
   personnel, the Data Producer autonomously identifies a Data Manager;
   in the case of a Producer of Data involving several Sections, the
   involved personnel autonomously identifies a Section of reference
   which should coincide with that of the Manager.

-  The Section Director of reference validates the received proposal,
   considering the proposing personnel’s contribution to producing the
   data; in the case of several Sections, the decision is made jointly
   by the Directors of the involved Sections.

-  The Department Director(s) validate(s) the Section Director’s
   proposal, considering the data’s scientific and operational aspects.

-  Should some components of the Data Producer belong to other
   institutions, there must be a formal document regulating the
   co-control of the data.

-  The Data Manager initiates the procedure for entering the data into
   the Registry in accordance with the procedures indicated by the Data
   Management Office.

.. [1]
   INGV Board of Directors Decree no. 424 of 15 September 2017, as per
   *Gazzetta Ufficiale* no. 27 of 2 September 2018.
