3.1 Data Access Rules
=====================

In accordance with what is stated in DP200, a fundamental principle for
INGV is Open Access to scientific information, or guaranteeing access
thereto with no additional costs for the final user, or making it
available at the marginal costs incurred for reproduction and
dissemination [1]_.

In keeping with this principle, the following rules apply.

The Service, where the term “service” is to be understood as any of the
operations applicable to a database that allows the data to be searched,
displayed, transferred, transformed, edited, and/or updated, may be
**Open** (freely available and accessible to anyone, without
restrictions) or **Limited** (available, but under the conditions
established or agreed upon by/with the holder of the right to exploit
the intellectual property); in this case the limitation must be defined
and justified. In particular:

-  The metadata search service will always be open, in order to give the
   data the greatest possible visibility (findability);

-  The data display service will be open, where the IT infrastructures
   make this possible;

-  Data transfer may be subject to limitations for specific types of
   users and/or for defined periods of time;

-  The data analysis and transformation services may be limited to only
   the data producers or to appropriately defined restricted user
   groups;

-  Any services for modifying and/or updating the data contained in the
   databases must necessarily be limited to authorized personnel and
   protected with security measures suitable for the purpose of
   conserving their integrity and guaranteeing total control over the
   modifications.

The type of access to the individual service may be modified, where
necessary, upon adequate and approved justification.

**Users** are classified in accordance with three modes of access:
**Anonymous**, **Registered**, and **Authorized**. In the case of
registered and authorized users, the access systems must carry out the
function of identification, authentication, and authorization for use of
the requested services. As a general rule, INGV employees should never
have greater limitations than outside users, of course in keeping with
any agreements in the event a number of institutions are involved.

Suitably verified failure by users to comply with the access rules or
the data use licences shall be raised with the interested parties and,
in the case of institutional authorizations, with the relevant body as
well. INGV reserves the right to adopt measures limiting access to the
data against those (individuals or bodies) that fail to comply with the
access rules established in the Data Registry. In more serious cases,
INGV reserves the right to take legal actions to protect its
intellectual property or to remedy any economic damage or damage to its
reputation.

Pending the development of the INGV data portal, the websites that
publish the data contained in the Data Registry, managed by the
individual producers or by the Sections, must set out all the
aforementioned information for the users. In particular, the users shall
be informed of the following:

-  the licence associated with the data;

-  the rules for accessing and using the data in a section named “Terms
   of use of the data”;

-  the “Limits of liability” to inform the users about the level of
   reliability of the data, so as to be relieved of any liability that
   may be laid upon INGV and upon the authors in relation to potential
   damage derived from improper use of the data caused by third parties.

.. [1]
   Legislative Decree no. 82 of 07 March 2005. Digital Administration
   Code (Codice dell'Amministrazione Digitale – CAD). Art.1, paragraph
   1, letter l-ter.
