4.2 Ordinary management of the Data Registry
============================================

The Data Registry’s Ordinary management involves, at various levels, the
following institutional parties:

-  The Data Manager and the Database Technical Manager, acting on behalf
   of the Data Producer;

-  The Section Director to whom the Data Manager reports;

-  The Department Director, responsible for institutional validation and
   scientific quality; in the case in which the data involves several
   Departments, the Department Directors identify one of reference;

-  The Data Management Office, which coordinates and manages the entire
   procedural process.

4.2.1 Admissibility criteria
----------------------------

For the purposes of their entry in the Data Registry, the data must
comply with certain admissibility criteria.

By way of principle, all the data related to institutional activity are
entered, whatever type of access to services they involve; the data
pertaining to projects and conventions and those produced by third
parties, the management and/or publication of which is devolved upon
INGV, are entered only if they involve Open Access.

The data must be the result of work by INGV personnel, or of the joint
work of personnel from INGV and from another organisation(s), or be data
produced by other institutions the devolve upon INGV the role of making
them accessible; if other institutions are involved on various grounds,
two conditions must be met:

-  INGV’s employed personnel must have made a non-marginal contribution
   to the creation of the data, or deals with the management and/or
   publication of the data;

-  INGV, in order to prevent possible situations of litigation, must
   have formal written agreements in place, approved by the relevant
   bodies of other authorities or institutions that regulate and clearly
   report the terms established between the parties and, above all, the
   express acceptance of the entry of these data into the INGV Data
   Registry; it is specified that this documentation must be signed by
   the qualified parties, which is to say parties that control the data
   that are the object of the agreement.

The data must be accessible via the Internet; in the case of physical
data (for example, rock samples), the metadata must be accessible, and
the terms for accessing the physical object must be established.

For each data, the type of service, and the related access rules, must
be specified in accordance with what is established in the Data Policy’s
Principles. In the case of Registered or Authorized Access, the criteria
must be defined and justified. In the event of any limitations in the
Access Services, as in the case of embargo, these must be specified and
appropriately justified. Lacking these specifications and
justifications, the access service shall be considered open.

The metadata provided for by the Data Registry must be openly available.

A description must also be available that illustrates the data
generation process, clearly identifying those data sources used (if any)
of which INGV is not the only controller.

For the data classified as static, integrity and invariability over
time, as when entered in the Registry, and periodical checks shall be
performed by means of validation tools (e.g. hashing, method for
creating and comparing encrypted keys). Should the need to vary a data
arise, a new element associated with the new version of the data will be
created; this new element will be assigned a new Registry identifier
and, if present in the previous version, a new DOI as well. Once an
element is entered into the Data Registry, it is important for it to be
maintained accessible over time, even if subsequent versions, more
evolved over the time, succeeded in the meantime.

The standards of interoperability must be complied with, both for the
coding of the data and in any data access services, indicating whether
they coincide with those suggested by Agenzia per l'Italia Digitale
(AgID) [1]_, or whether it is a standard of reference in the scientific
sector of reference.

It must be reported whether these are spatial data that can be entered
in the national registry of spatial data (National Catalog for Spatial
Data, *Repertorio Nazionale dei Dati Territoriali* – RNDT) [2]_, with
particular reference to the spatial data defined as of “general
interest. [3]_”

Each request for entering data must be accompanied by a sustainability
plan agreed upon with the Directors of the involved Sections, clarifying
the nature and duration of the financial coverage necessary for the
infrastructure hosting the data, and describe whether and how the
adopted solutions guarantee both the conservation and the accessibility
to the data over the long term.

4.2.2 Procedure for entering elements
-------------------------------------

The ordinary submission procedure is composed of the following steps
(Figure 2):

1.  The Data Producer’s identity is formalized (see Chapter 3.2),
    indicating for each component the relevance, role, and ORCID
    identification code, as per the indications of the Ministry of
    Education, Universities and Research (MIUR) [4]_ and the Italian
    National Agency for the Evaluation of Universities and Research
    Institutes (ANVUR) [5]_.

2.  Should some persons among the Data Producers belong to other
    organisation, it is necessary to ensure that there is a formal
    document that regulates the terms of the collaboration and the
    exchange of data, which must expressly provide that INGV is entitled
    to republish the data and to enter them into its own Data Registry;

3.  The Data Producer indicates the Data Manager and, in the case of a
    Data Collection, the Database Technical Manager;

4.  The Data Manager verifies the admissibility criteria, compiles the
    metadata, where possible, while also compiling the metadata
    associated with the DOI identifier (Chapter 5.2) and for the Level 3
    and 4 data, and proposes one of the Creative Commons licenses
    (paragraph 4.2.5);

5.  The Data Manager submits the request via e-mail to the Data
    Management Office, attaching the material prepared as per the above
    point;

6.  The Data Management Office verifies the technical admissibility of
    the request and validates the metadata, interacting if necessary
    with the Data Manager for any corrections;

7.  The Data Management Office identifies the type of data that are the
    object of the request and establishes their subsequent path, which
    may be of two types: complete, which is adopted for the new
    Databases that are not part of data sets already present in the
    Registry; or simplified, which is adopted for the individual files
    or Databases that are part of a data group already present in the
    Registry (e.g.: a new version, or a subset). The Data Manager is
    sent a notification of the preliminary acceptance; in the event the
    request is rejected, an e-mail will be sent to the Data Manager,
    with the reasons for the inadmissibility;

8.  The Data Manager submits to the Section Director a written request
    to enter the data into the Registry, attaching the clearance of the
    Data Management Office, the metadata, and any necessary
    documentation (example: formal agreements for the exchange of data
    with other institutions).

9.  The Section Director verifies the reliability of the submitted
    request and transmits it to the Department Director;

10. The Department Director assesses the request, also in relation to
    INGV’s Three-Year Activities Programme; in the case of Level 0 or 1
    data, it assigns the license as delegate of INGV’s legal
    representative; sends the authorization to proceed to the Data
    Management Office;

11. The Data Management Office proceeds to assign the Registry
    identifier and enters the new element into the Data Registry; if the
    data are neither structured nor structurable in an existing
    institutional Database, they are archived in Earth-Prints;

12. The Data Management Office enters the element’s metadata into
    external metadata Registries, in particular into DataCite’s DOI
    Registry and, if the Data Manager signals that the data are spatial
    in type and are of interest for the Repertorio Nazionale dei Dati
    Territoriali (national registry of spatial data), enters the data
    into the RNDT Registry;

13. The Data Management Office proceeds to update the Data Registry’s
    information on the INGV institutional portal.

|image0|\ *Fig. 2 – Block diagram of procedure for entering new elements
into the Data Registry.*

4.2.3 Modifications and supplements to elements
-----------------------------------------------

Any requests for modifications to the metadata associated with the
elements already present in the Data Registry will be made known by the
Data Manager to the Data Management Office, which will assess its
admissibility on the basis of consistency with what is already present
in the Registry. If the extent of the variations is deemed considerable,
the creation of a new element in the Data Registry will be assessed,
repeating the submission procedure in part or in whole. The Data
Management Office will see to tracking all the modifications made on
each element of the Data Registry. Periodically, the Data Management
Office will verify the accessibility, integrity, and consistency of the
data present in the Data Registry; should inconsistencies be found, the
DATA MANAGEMENT OFFICE will interact with the Data Manager for the
appropriate actions.

4.2.4 Removal of elements
-------------------------

The removal of an element from the Data Registry may take place upon
submission of a justified request by the Data Manager to the Data
Management Office, which will assess the admissibility thereof. If the
request is approved, the element will not disappear from the Data
Registry, but will be indicated, along with the reason for removal, as a
removed element. Any persistent identifiers (e.g.: DOI) will not be
removed, but the corresponding metadata will be appropriately modified
to signal that these are removed elements. The Data Manager will also be
asked to create a Landing Page explaining the reason for the removal and
presenting, where it exists, a link to the element replacing the removed
one.

4.2.5 Licences associated with the elements
-------------------------------------------

Since the regulations in force adopt the “open by default”
principle [6]_ according to which *“The data [...] that administrations
publish, by any means, without the express adoption of a license [...]
are to be understood as issued as open-type data”* INGV, as controller,
will place a license [7]_ on each element of the Data Registry [8]_. In
accordance with the provisions stated in the INGV Data Policy and with
the suggestions made by the guidelines of the European Commission [9]_,
the adopted licenses shall be of the Creative Commons type [10]_.

For the purpose of supporting Open Science through the publication of
“Open-type data, [11]_” it is established that Level 0 and 1 type data
are attributed the “Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY)” license [12]_,
by virtue of the principle enshrined in the “Principles of the INGV Data
Policy” according to which the owner [13]_ of the intellectual property
of these data is INGV. As regards the version of the license, at the
time of the drafting hereof, reference to v4.0 is made, but subsequently
any updates must be taken into consideration [14]_.

For the Level 2 and 3 data, the Data Manager may, taking account of the
regulations in force, suggest one of the Creative Commons licenses at
the moment of the request to the Data Management Office that will deal
with assessing its admissibility. If the Data Manager proposes a
Creative Commons license other than CC BY, it must provide justification
for the proposal, in order to guide the Data Management Office in the
admissibility assessment process. In the case in which no license is
proposed by the Data Manager, the CC BY license shall be automatically
attributed. The assigned license must be reported on the Landing Page of
the site from which the data are distributed, the characteristics of
which are detailed in point 5.2 below.

4.2.6 Persistent identifiers associated with the elements
---------------------------------------------------------

The data entered into the Data Registry shall, in addition to a Registry
identifier, also have a persistent identifier broadly adopted in a
scientific setting as the DOI code. The DOI Registry Agency used is
DataCite, whose metadata scheme is adopted [15]_. For details on the
procedure for assigning this identifier, reference is made to Chapter 5,
“Registries of metadata not managed by INGV.”

4.2.7 Exclusion of liability and terms of use of the data
---------------------------------------------------------

The Data Management Office, in concert with the Legal Affairs and
Litigation Office, will establish, on a case-by-case basis, the
procedures and actions for managing the exclusion of liability of INGV
and of personnel in connection with any incompleteness and uncertainty
of the data present in the Data Registry, the use, even partial, of the
data reported in the Data Registry by third parties, and any damage
caused to third parties, derived from their use.

.. [1]
   Agenzia Digitale per l'Italia (2017). *Linee Guida Nazionali per la
   Valorizzazione del Patrimonio Informativo Pubblico*.

.. [2]
   Legislative Decree no. 82 of 07 March 2005. Digital Administration
   Code (Codice dell'Amministrazione Digitale – CAD). Art. 59, paragraph
   5.

.. [3]
   Decree of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers of 10 November
   2011. Art.3, Paragraph 1. List in Attachment 1.

.. [4]
   Decree of the Ministry of Education, Universities and Research no.
   120 of 07 June 2016.

.. [5]
   ANVUR, Project IRIDE.

.. [6]
   Legislative Decree no. 82 of 07 March 2005. Digital Administration
   Code (Codice dell'Amministrazione Digitale – CAD). Art. 2, paragraph
   2.

.. [7]
   Legislative Decree no. 36 of 24 January 2006. Art.5, Paragraph 1,
   “\ \ *[...] The controller of the data adopts, by priority, standard
   open licenses [...]*.” Art.2, Paragraph h, “\ \ *standard license for
   reuse: the contract, or other negotiated instrument, drawn up in
   electronic form where possible, defining the procedures for reusing
   the documents of public administrations or of public-law bodies*.”

.. [8]
   Legislative Decree no. 165 of 30 March 2001, paragraph 2. The parties
   tasked with placing licenses on the data are public administrations,
   understood as “\ \ *all the administrations of the State, including
   institutes and schools at any level, and educational institutions
   educative, companies, and administrations of the State under
   autonomous system, Regions, Provinces, Municipalities, mountain
   communities and their consortia and associations, university
   institutions, independent public housing institutes, chambers of
   commerce, industry, handicrafts and agriculture and their
   associations, all national, regional, and local non-economic public
   authorities, administrations, concerns and bodies of the national
   health service, the agency for the agency for the representation of
   public administrations in negotiations (Agenzia per la rappresentanza
   negoziale delle pubbliche amministrazioni – ARAN) and the Agencies
   pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 300 of 30 July 1999. Until the
   organic revision of the sector’s regulations, the provisions as per
   this decree shall continue to apply to the Italian National Olympic
   Committee (CONI) as well*.”

.. [9]
   European Commission notice (2014/C 240/01). Guidelines on recommended
   standard licences, datasets and charging for the reuse of documents.

.. [10]
   Creative Commons. https://creativecommons.org/

.. [11]
   Legislative Decree no. 8 of 07 March 2005, Art.68, paragraph 3,
   letter b

.. [12]
   Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0).
   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

.. [13]
   Legislative Decree no. 82 of 07 March 2005, Art. 1, paragraph cc, as
   modified by Legislative Decree no. 179 of 26 August 2016, Art. 1,
   paragraph g

.. [14]
   Creative Commons Licenses.
   https://wiki.creativecommons.org/wiki/License_Versions

.. [15]
   Datacite. Metadata Scheme. https://schema.datacite.org,/

.. |image0| image:: ./media/image2.png
   :width: 6.69583in
   :height: 8.79167in
