5.3 Italian INSPIRE data registry for spatial data
==================================================

The national registry of spatial data (National Catalog for Spatial
Data, *Repertorio Nazionale dei Dati Territoriali* – RNDT) [1]_ was
identified as the “databank of national interest [2]_” defined as the
*“set of information collected and managed digitally by public
administrations, homogenous by type and content, the knowledge of which
may be used by public administrations, also for statistical purposes,
for the exercise of their functions and in compliance with the
responsibilities and regulations in force.”*

The content of the RNDT and its modes of constitution and updating were
defined by the Committee for technical rules on the spatial data of the
public administrations of the Ministry of Public Administration and
Innovation, in concert with the Ministry of the Environment, Land and
Sea [3]_. Based on this regulatory setting, the RNDT is the national
catalogue of metadata regarding the spatial data and services relating
to them, available at Public Administrations.

The RNDT publishes the metadata produced and conferred by each
accredited administration, which, as provided for by the regulations in
force, remains fully responsible for the correctness and updating
thereof, as well as for the management and updating of the data to which
said metadata refer.

5.3.1 Spatial data of general interest
--------------------------------------

In describing the content of the RNDT, lawmakers define in detail 110
types of “Data of general interest,” and INGV controls some of them,
including:

-  Geodetic networks and monographs of geodetic elements: networks of
   points with known coordinates relating to a system of common geodetic
   reference, used for the proper sizing and orientation of the
   topological-cartographic survey of a large land area, and the related
   monographs.

-  Digital elevation models: Representation of the land morphology in
   digital format, including DTM, DEM, DSM, DTED-type and similar
   representations.

-  National seismic network: Stations and networks measuring and
   recording seismic activity in progress (shifting ground).

-  Seismic hazard maps of reference for the national territory:
   representations illustrating the ground’s horizontal peak
   acceleration values (ag) and the spectral values for various return
   periods (approved with Order of the President of the Council of
   Ministers no. 3519 of 28 April 2006, Attachment 1b), to be used in
   the new technical regulations for constructions approved with the
   Ministerial Decree of 14 January 2008).

INGV, as Public Administration holding some of the data of general
interest, must see to increasing and updating the national registry of
spatial data (*Repertorio Nazionale dei Dati Territoriali* – RNDT) so as
to make the consultation of metadata accessible to all through access to
the RNDT Catalogue and, in cascade, to meet the obligations of the
INSPIRE Directive.

Contribution to the RNDT is also provided for by the *“Specifications of
the standards for the formats of data and metadata, for their treatment
for the purposes of publication (transparency) and reuse (open data),
and for the delivery of the software applications,” contained in
Attachment 1 of the “Convention between the Civil Protection Department
and INGV for the activity of seismic and volcanic surveillance on
national territory, technical/scientific consulting, and studies on
seismic and volcanic risks*\  [4]_\ *,” reporting that “to be properly
used, all the provided web services and delivered data shall be
accompanied by the related metadata describing the data’s properties,
characteristics, and history, as well as the description of the
individual fields associated with the data tables. These metadata shall
be drawn up in compliance with the standards provided for by the
national registry of spatial data (Repertorio Nazionale dei Dati
Territoriali – RNDT), as per the decree of the President of the Council
of Ministers of 10 November 2011.”*

Reference is to be made to the RNDT web portal for the “Operative guide
for accreditation of Public Administrations,” [5]_ with the
accreditation procedure of Public Administrations required to contribute
to the Registry.

5.3.2 Guidelines for Compiling RNDT Metadata
--------------------------------------------

The “RNDT” metadata profile is based on ISO Standards 19115, 19119, and
TS 19139, produced by the ISO/TC211 [6]_ Technical Committee which deals
with standards for geographic information. Compliance with the technical
rules of the RNDT, in keeping with the ISO standards of reference,
ensures simultaneous compliance, with no further obligations, with the
European regulations for the implementation of the European INSPIRE
Directive [7]_ as concerns the metadata. The INSPIRE metadata in fact
represent a subset of those provided for by the RNDT; therefore, a set
of metadata’s compliance with the RNDT profile guarantees its compliance
with INSPIRE.

Reference is made to the RNDT web portal [8]_ for the technical rules
for compiling the RNDT metadata for the spatial data that describe in
detail the metadata to be associated with the vector data, raster
images, and data access services. The Data Management Office will have
appropriate IT tools for compiling these metadata in an automated
fashion.

.. [1]
   Legislative Decree no. 82 of 07 March 2005. Digital Administration
   Code (Codice dell'Amministrazione Digitale – CAD). Art. 59 “Spatial
   data.”

.. [2]
   Legislative Decree no. 82 of 07 March 2005. Digital Administration
   Code (Codice dell'Amministrazione Digitale – CAD). Art. 60 “Databank
   of national interest.”

.. [3]
   Ministerial Decree of 10 November 2011, Technical rules for defining
   the content of the national registry of spatial data (Repertorio
   Nazionale dei Dati Territoriali – RNDT), as well as the modes of
   initial constitution and updating thereof.
   http://www.gazzettaufficiale.it/eli/id/2012/02/27/12A01801/sg

.. [4]
   http://istituto.ingv.it/images/Convenzioni_DPC/convenzione
   dpc_Allegato_A_2018.pdf

.. [5]
   *Guida operativa per l'accreditamento delle Pubbliche
   Amministrazioni*, version 2.0 of 2014,
   http://www.rndt.gov.it/RNDT/home/images/RNDT_guida_operativa_accreditamento_v2.0_20140725.pdf

.. [6]
   ISO Technical Committee on digital geographic information,
   https://committee.iso.org/home/tc211

.. [7]
   | Commission Regulation (EC) No 1205/2008 of 3 December 2008
     implementing Directive 2007/2/EC of the European Parliament and of
     the Council as regards metadata.
   | http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/ALL/?uri=CELEX:32008R1205

.. [8]
   Repertorio Nazionale dei Dati Territoriali, http://www.rndt.gov.it
