Tasks of the Data Management Office
===================================

The Data Management Office pursues its purposes in accordance with an
Activity Plan that defines the yearly objectives and describes in detail
the times, procedures, and human and financial resources needed to carry
out the activity. The Activity Plan is submitted for approval to the
General Manager and to the Department Directors, for their respective
spheres of responsibility.

During the Start-up and Trial phase necessary for instituting the Data
Registry, the Data Management Office will proceed to transfer the data
present in the Census conducted in the INGV Sections during the
2016-2017 period into the Data Registry. This transfer will take place
according to a list of priorities defined at the same time as the
approval hereof by the Department Directors, based on the criteria
defined in the previous chapters. As indicated in point 2.3 above, at
the end of the first year the Data Management Office will draw up a
report to be sent to the Department Directors, suggesting solutions for
any criticalities and improvements.

The Data Management Office must have instruments for the Registry’s
automated management based on principles of transparency, efficiency,
and simplification, integrated with INGV management systems. These
instruments must allow the INGV Registry’s metadata to be automatically
aligned with the external metadata Registries – both those provided for
herein such as DataCite’s DOI Registry or the national registry of
spatial data (*Repertorio Nazionale dei Dati Territoriali* – RNDT) and
for other metadata registries that may be considered in the future. At
the moment of its institution, the Data Management Office shall insert
into its Activity Plan the construction of the aforementioned tools for
ordinary management.

The Data Management Office must have a web page appropriately advertised
on the institutional web portal, collecting and spreading information on
its activity.

The Data Management Office will deal with the monitoring of the data
listed in the Data Registry, for the purpose of guaranteeing their
consistency and compliance with what is declared in the phase of entry
into the Data Registry, and towards this purpose may interface directly
with the Data Managers and with the Technical Managers of the databases.
