.. _data-registry-1:

Data Registry
=============

The development of the Data Registry is a crucial condition for
implementing the INGV Data Policy.

The Data Registry, by listing the set of metadata referring to the
scientific data produced by INGV, in fact endows INGV with a means for
identifying the institutional data and the data related to projects and
conventions, or produced by third parties. By way of principle, the Data
Registry contains metadata:

-  Concerning institutional activities, regardless of whether or not
   they are structured in Databases, whatever type of access to services
   they establish;

-  Concerning projects and conventions, provided they call for Open
   Access;

-  Produced by third parties, the management and/or publication of which
   is devolved upon INGV by virtue of a formal agreement, provided they
   call for Open Access.

The Data Registry aims to improve and simplify the entire cycle of
scientific research, and is designed to meet the needs of INGV’s
personnel at all levels, as well as the needs of parties that interact
or would wish to potentially interact with INGV, and that therefore
require simplified and centralized data access tools.

The Data Registry aims to simplify the systems for assessing the metrics
related to the impact of the results of the Research.

The Data Registry contributes towards the simplification and
verifiability of scientific hypotheses, since it makes it possible to
univocally track the data used to process them, thereby allowing them to
be reproduced. It will also be possible for researchers to add, to the
publications, univocal references to the data used, thereby at the same
time fostering recognition of the work done by the persons who
contributed towards creating those data.

The Data Registry is open and made accessible through INGV’s web portal.
In order to manage and use the Data Registry, each element’s metadata
must be collected and kept up-to-date. The Registry’s scientific,
technical, and administrative management is entrusted to the Data
Management Office.

The Registry’s items are organized in data groups ascribable to a common
type of objects, for example successive versions of a scientific product
or sub-products or subsets of data generated or simply contained in a
given Data Collection. Each group of elements may in its turn by linked
to other groups, by adopting the typologies of relationships suggested
in the OpenAire guidelines [1]_.

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 3
  :caption: Indice dei contenuti

  data-registry-1/metadata.rst
  data-registry-1/ordinary-management-of-the-data-registry.rst

.. [1]
   OpenAire. Guidelines for Data Archives.
