Introduction
============

The document outlining the principles of the INGV Data Policy was
approved and formalized with Presidential Decree no. 200 (DP200) of 26
April 2016.

The definition of an INGV Data Policy responds to the need to handle the
multitude of research data that are produced, and to set out the
inspiring principles upon which to base a common institutional
management of said data, and to manage how they are accessed, used, and
reused. The INGV Data Policy is based upon the fundamental principle of
"Open Access.” In this sense, INGV adopts a policy that enables free,
open, full, and promptly access to its research data, complying with the
principles established in EU and national regulations, and in accordance
with its own institutional purposes, structure, and organization.

Since the first actions undertaken (DP223 11 June 2015) to reach full
implementation of the document’s inspiring principles, it has been clear
that one cannot speak of “Data Policy” without having adequate knowledge
of the intangible heritage INGV has in the enormous mass of scientific
data produced in its research activities in the various Sections. INGV
has therefore identified the Data Registry as the key instrument for an
effective and efficient management of INGV’s research data. In order to
develop this Registry, the census of data produced by all INGV’s
Sections was initiated in the second half of 2016, concluding on July
2017.

This first census found that INGV manages more than 250 types of
research data, differing by origin, level of processing, and
organization. This diversity is one of the aspects of INGV’s cultural
richness, while at the same time representing a challenge in terms of
how such a heritage is to be managed. Of course, compiling the Registry
with its information and more than 250 types of data is no simple
operation, nor is it one to be done all at once, but requires adequate
programming making it possible to proceed by assessing any
incompleteness in the information or difficulties in the procedures, and
by carrying out the necessary corrections and implementations.

This document, in keeping with DP200, provides the framework of rules
and procedures for managing the data, to be of support to the
implementation of the aforementioned INGV Data Policy.

In particular, this document defines the key terms of use for managing
INGV’s research data (Chapter 1); illustrates the objectives and
strategies for implementing the INGV Data Policy and the activity plan
for the starting-up, implementation, and ordinary management of the Data
Registry (Chapter 2); defines the procedures for managing the data and
the Data Registry (Chapter 3 and Chapter 4, respectively); defines the
procedures for attributing the DOIs (Digital Object Identifiers) and for
the management of Territorial data (Chapter 5); and lastly defines the
Data Management Office whose mission is to promote the Open Science
paradigm and manage the Data Registry (Chapter 5).
