2.3 Activity plan
=================

The delicate phase of starting up and trialling the Data Registry and
its subsequent ordinary management are entrusted to the Data Management
Office.

2.3.1 Start-up and Trial
------------------------

This first phase has the dual purpose of beginning to populate the Data
Registry with the elements reported in the Census in accordance with a
migration prioritization described below, and of testing and validating
the rules and procedures defined in Chapter 3 below, while suggesting
corrections where necessary. The detailed programming of the Registry
population activities, the validation of the procedures, and the
adoption of any corrections provided for in the Start-up and Trial phase
are reported in Attachment 1.

Considering the high number of censused elements (more than 250), during
the start-up phase the Registry will be populated following a scale of
priorities that takes account of the maturity of the elements to be
inserted, and of institutional needs.

To be transferred into the Registry, each data declared in the Census
must be associated with a type of Service and therefore indicate the
corresponding rules of access. **Lacking this information, the data
cannot be transferred from the Census to the Registry**. Consequently,
the first level of prioritization is carried out based on the type of
services declared and the corresponding access rules, and on the
characteristics that make data more or less accessible, such as for
example the presence of DOIs and/or of operative Landing Pages. The
definition of the type of service and the pertinent access rules is the
responsibility of the holder of the data, and is implemented by the Data
Manager.

The second level of prioritization is based on the consideration of
INGV’s strategic and operative objectives and is therefore the
responsibility of the Department Directors. The data’s institutional
priority may be established on the basis of the characteristics of the
data in question, and on its impact, if any, on INGV’s strategic
aspects, which is to say on the data’s contribution towards achieving
the institutional objectives established in the Three-Year Activity
Plan. To establish the institutional data priority, one may, for
example, consider whether it must be provided to outside financing
bodies on the basis of specific agreements, or estimate the economic
value connected with its production, understood as the weight of INGV’s
contribution. This value may be assessed in terms of own economic
resources (from FOE or from institutional projects), personnel
resources, or instrumental resources for its production and preservation
over the long term (sustainability).

In brief, for the purposes of prioritization for migration from the
Census to the Registry, the Data Management Office will take the
following characteristics of the censused data into consideration:

-  Type of service associated with the data and with the related access
   rules;

-  Existence of a DOI, or other permanent associated identifier, or of
   an associated operative Landing Page (also in the absence of DOIs);

-  It is a priority in the context of the institutional activity.

In this phase, at the same time as when the Registry begins being
populated, the Data Management Office will trial the procedures defined
in Chapter 3, in order to verify their validity. This trial, lasting 12
months, will allow the advantages, disadvantages, and problems related
to the procedures to be highlighted; after the trial, the Data
Management Office will draw up a report suggesting solutions to the
criticalities in the procedures and/or the rules of operation and –
should these criticalities are found – the necessary improvements. Based
on this report, the Department Directors will assess whether to apply
solutions and strategies proposed by the Data Management Office, to thus
declare the Start-up and Trial concluded, and to go on to the subsequent
phase of the Registry’s ordinary management. Should the Department
Directors deem it necessary to extend the trial phase, they shall define
the procedures and duration thereof in concert with the Data Management
Office.

2.3.2 Ordinary Management
-------------------------

At the end of the Start-up and Trial phase, the Data Management Office
will update the procedures, and where applicable the rules, for the Data
Registry’s ordinary management based on its report and on the Department
Directors’ recommendations.

The new document, containing updated/modified rules and/or procedures,
will then be submitted for ratification by the Executive Board.
Moreover, the Data Management Office will submit to the Department
Directors, and thus to the Executive Board, a document named “Data
Management Office: Internal Rules,” which will describe, with a level of
detail permitting their effective operativity, the procedures for the
Data Registry’s ordinary management. Once approval by all the competent
bodies is secured, the phase of the Data Registry’s ordinary management
can begin.

In principle, it is established here that the Data Management Office:

-  Will periodically update the Registry, following a timeline agreed
   upon with the Executive Board;

-  Will draw up, at a yearly frequency, a report containing the
   statistics of the managed data, an analysis of the effectiveness of
   applying the Open Science paradigm in INGV’s structures, the impact
   of evolving EU and national regulations and practices on data
   management, any criticalities emerging over the course of the year,
   and the consequent actions to be adopted.

Moreover, based on the yearly reports provided by the Data Management
Office, the Executive Boards, having heard the Department Directors
where necessary, will express its opinion on the need to update the
Principles document of the INGV Data Policy and/or the document of the
Data Registry’s Ordinary management.
