2.2 Strategy
============

The implementation strategy for the INGV Data Policy described in this
document is based on the development of the Data Registry as a technical
and organizational instrument, and on the establishment of the Data
Management Office, with strategic and technical/operational tasks.

The Data Registry, according to its definition, collects metadata that
describe the research Data that are the result of the scientific and
technological production of INGV and/or managed and/or published by
INGV, regardless of whether these data are static or dynamic, and
regardless of the procedures followed for their creation. The
development of the Data Registry will not only provide INGV with a
system for the institutional identification of its own production of
scientific data, but will also allow tracking the provenance of the data
introduced into the research life cycle or, more generally, into the
world of shared knowledge, that shall be certified using modern
information technologies. The entire cycle of scientific research will
benefit from the presence of a Data Registry. For example, it will be
possible to improve the assessment of the metrics concerning the impact
of the research results; the verifiability of undergraduate and/or
graduate university degree theses based on non-original data (published
in scientific articles) will be simplified; it will be possible to cite,
precisely and in updated fashion, all the data that are used, while at
the same time valorizing both the work of those using the data, and that
of those producing them. In the first implementation phase, the Data
Registry’s structure should be patterned after that of the Data Census
conducted at the end of 2016, beginning of the 2017 and cited in the
Introduction. It is foreseen that this structure might be modified
depending on how the regulations and INGV’s databases will evolve, this
being always and at any rate for the purpose of optimizing the flow of
information between the Data Management Office and the data managers.

The Data Management Office (Ufficio Gestione data – UGD): is instituted
to respond to the "Professionalism" principle in the “Principles of the
INGV Data Policy” document, which enshrines INGV’s commitment to
allocating the professional resources necessary to implement the Data
Policy. The Data Management Office, in accordance with its definition,
acting with the purpose of promoting the Open Science paradigm, manages
the Data Registry both in the “Start-up and Trial” phase and in the
“Ordinary Management” phase (see paragraph 2.3 below).

For the purposes of the aforementioned strategy, it is important for the
establishment and subsequent implementation of the Data Registry to be
the result of actions shared among the various components of INGV
represented by executive bodies, management bodies (including the Data
Management Office), and personnel. In fact, all these components must
contribute towards the common objective of recognizing the activity and
scientific authoritativeness of those producing the data, and at the
same time the institutional responsibilities and duties towards the
scientific community and all potential users.
